---
title: On The Movie "Vanilla"
date: 2024-10-30
categories: [Film]
tags: [review]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

Well this movie was quite the cluster...truck. Van, actually. Or ice cream truck. Well, there wasn't really an ice cream truck, so...and no I wouldn't dare curse on this blog of mine, which I value too...dearly. *(But if I did, shouldn't I be having multitudes of followers and readers by now? I've had this domain name for quite some time and yet...)*

"Vanilla" is, quite literally, a play on what we know about the flavor of vanilla. It's not exactly a movie that I can...freely write about at this point of my life, what with the topic that gives me...discomfort, and yes it's a three-letter word, and also with having the same fears as the main character, Elliott, of being...thoroughly unsuccessful. But what I can say is that the road trip frees them up by the end of the movie, but it's not what makes the movie pack a flavorful, delectable, and I'm using fancy words here, piece of cinema.

A road trip movie is not something I'm unfamiliar with, having blogged about [Diarios De Motocicleta](\_posts\2023-01-27-On The Movie Diarios de Motocicleta.md), but each one is quite different from every other movie. That's kind of the thing about this...whole car thing. (I don't have a car, just a mini kick scooter.) The road trip...wait, why do I keep saying that? It wasn't technically defined as one, if I may say so myself. The movie is...quite so about the closing and opening, the push and the pull, the forward and backward motion, but also just the fleetingness of it all that is well, the vanilla ice cream. I do want to say that there is something in the movie that is like, this well, I can't say it because I don't want to write about the three-letter word, but that sort of linear flow of the direction here but also this well, wow, shapes. It's...no, I just don't want to mess this up again. How many ice creams have we all had? Does this movie really hit that close to where I'm at for me to feel so washed up with it? But saying that would mean I'm...no I'm not really into all that kind of stuff, and I'm here to leave a review about the movie, and why it's such good cinema!

Yes, back to the matter at hand. There's no denying this isn't one of those aesthetically-pleasing movies but focuses on precision that hits its target. It's kind of like seeing a dejavu and your life flash by in a movie, what with how bleak it is and all. It's like an olympic medalist archer's arrow shooting you straight to the...pee-pee. That's not quite how I would like to describe this movie, but it is and I do not want to talk about.

Much like this blog post, this movie is not a waste of your time at all because it doesn't shoot you on your...private areas, and leaves you motionless. What it does is...oh dear, I have been saying so much rubbish about this movie haven't I? I don't mean any kind of offense at all, I just...I just don't know why I find it hard to describe why this movie is extremely good, to the point where I'm doubting the medium, the time of viewing, the place, the media, the person I'm viewing it with, the exact times I looked away from the screen, the fact that I watched it with earphones on, and everything about my existence as a whole... I could really use a good scream right about now. It's...it's kind of a bit too much but also right, and that's kind of the attack of the movie itself that I'm talking about, and I just...don't know how to respond to it.

Perhaps I'll come back to this movie someday, and it will be an entirely different experience. But for now, that's where it's at. Thanks for reading this.

Edit: If I may, I would also recommend this app for the phone called "[Ice Cream Disaster](https://icecreamdisaster.com/)", which the app Elliott was making in the movie reminded me of. The movie wasn't a disaster, though, and no, sorry, I'm not even talking about the movie at this point...